Questions for Levin:
Which simulation of messy genome due to morphological robustness mechanisms?
Heard of Rupert Sheldrake, Issac Arthur (transhumanist but more grounded)?
Recent talk on Alfred North Whitehead?
Pamela Lyon for basal cognition and stress? Yes, published SI with her.
How ever did you get into this topic? See bottom for my sharing.

Any discussions with philosophers or sociologists about societies/swarms? Next level of group unit for humans.
I have been scouring various kinds of morphology: Rhizocephalae as highly-derived, neotenic barnacles (which are themselves problematic), transmissible mussel cancer, cancer as Metazoa 1.0, SCANDAL hypothesis, convergent evolution, speculative evolution, siphonophores & salps, insect colonies, biofilms, slime moulds, speculative biology
With agents everywhere, the approach of interacting with organisms, swarms and components the same way we tinker with machines would be better replaced by an approach akin to animal husbandry. This has proved useful in much of agricultural work, and also extends to industry, war, and social interactions.
Polycomputation and esoteric programming language: Rockstar for songs, Chef for recipes, Piet for art
Planaria as transitional forms from cells to metazoa. Is the two-headed form a secondary attractor state? Or have other forms been attempted? Maybe find a way to feed the no-headed worms in rich media and sustain them for several life cycles.

Why choose to feel for others? (Will the good of the other as other by Bishop Robert Barron on Lex Fridman podcast?)
Why keep going for talks?
Why choice of Bodhisattva? How to reconcile with biohacking? Isn't that being selfish on humanity's behalf?
Control and relationship
Recent convo with Kastrup: Even molecules can error-correct after perturbation. But also AI said to be zero/low on the scale of intelligence. How much closer would it take? Molecules are actually a few levels above the smallest-known levels.

Official term for babbling?

Funding from Templeton Foundation?

What is the interest in AI art?


https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/QpByFkccNFNCakWeN/biological-holism-a-new-paradigm
"A key insight, generally credited to Ludwig von Bertalanffy, is that open systems are different than closed systems. In a closed thermodynamic system, you sooner-or-later end up with a rather bland equilibrium as entropy reaches its maximum level. In open systems, however, interesting structures tend to emerge. What you get is a non-equilibrium steady state, formalized by chemist Ilya Prigogine as a dissipative structure. In more recent times, physicist Jeremy England has developed this notion to a process account of evolution as dissipation-driven adaptation. Most recently, his group has come up with the concept of "low rattling" as a predictive principle of self-organization[8]."

// How to do this in Evolve? Keep adding inert cells with energy. Is this valid?
Well, the Bibites uses plants.
And in real life, we are in the stage of effectively infinite energy from the Sun. Of course, over long durations or large scales even the stars become as dust, but we must be pragmatic.

"The balance of maintenance and growth is a balance between negative and positive feedback. You need negative feedback to prevent a system from falling apart. You need positive feedback for the system to find potentially-better set-point values."
// This is what Paul and Leto meant by avoiding the safe path. You will end up at a local minima that is difficult to migrate away from when new threats arrive.

"In the language of dynamical systems theory, we want to find stable attractor states. And we need occasional perturbations in the form of positive feedback in order to make "updates". The concept of allostasis (stability through change) was conceived of in stress physiology to reflected this importance of positive feedback in adaptation[10]. Remember how Wiener anticipated the need for anticipation (of errors)? That's the beauty of it all: if we amplify errors that exceed a certain threshold, that's all the positive feedback we need. And that's exactly the error used to make Bayesian updates.

"I mentioned Thomas Kuhn earlier. In the preface to his essay collection The Essential Tension[11], he describes how he stumbled upon the hermeneutic method without knowing what it was. The hermeneutic method is a recursive process of interpretation developed by monks as a way to improve interpretations of the Bible. You start off with an interpretation and analyze the text accordingly. When you come across inconsistencies, you update your interpretation such that these are accounted for. This recursive scheme is, in fact, a precursor to Bayesian inference."



Coarse-graining - Multiple inputs lead to same output. Thinking of truth table.



How did I end up here?
Personally, it started funnily enough at a creationist event focusing on the complexity of the bacterial flagellum. I left behind their claims, but the complexity remained clear. Then some research with biomaterials showed me how involved the process of synthesis was. Not that working with wood or metal is easy either, but the steps are consistent and reliable. But wetlab work has so many other variables that the process almost becomes magical as one of my former employers described it. Then I finally picked up programming, and it was interesting learning how to interact and control the computer on a deeper level. Then I heard about computation in odd media, namely Turing-complete games. Then it was other media, like marble runs or water pipes. One compilation Accidentally Turing-Complete even commented how it was difficult to create a medium that did not allow the construction of logic gates. And because I've taken a passing interest in history, I wondered how it could be that past peoples had never stumbled upon computation.