Zotero

I first learned about Zotero while in wetlab during my undergrad, but only in the past few months did I finally commit to using it. I had been using my supervisor's method of YYYY_AU_Title for file-naming, with slight modificiations for multiple authors and whether it was a preprint or PhD thesis. I thought that it was high time I moved to a better system. She might have been disappointed to learn that I had been stuck with such an old system too, I think.

To 'Rename and Move' webpage snapshots with Zotfile, I added 'html' to the filetypes allowed in Advanced Settings. 
Then, I ran 'Rename and Move' for all the items in Zotero.
I now have a new problem - The multiple attachments within each item have been completely renamed. But hopefully this should not happen again...
Even if I sync the files with rclone, the names wouldn't change, right? If only there was a way to copy only the diffs. I can't even copy a local backup and then manually paste inside because the different filenames would lead to dupes.
In other words... I probably have to hunt down each offending attachment to rename them. (I used the in-built checklist because I wasn't aware of markdown lists. But it's quite fitting as item 2 shows...)
- [x] Openly available illustrations as tools to describe eukaryotic microbial diversity, 6 supporting figs (added ZIP and 7Z files, then R&M again...)
- [ ] Artificial Life Models in Software (appendix) - Even bigger problem: How come some attachments lack authors? They're clearly included in the citations.

If run out of space, consider deleting the papers from the ALIFE conferences, as they are already stored in the main document. Maybe retain only the items but not the attachments.


99_Papers/00_ManagePapers:
My personal working folder for data management

Generate bibliography reference for one-off use:
1. Right-click and select "Create Bibliography from Item..."
2. Select Output Mode: Bibliogrpahy
3. Select Output Method: Copy to Clipboard

Secure login credentials:
1. Input if not already present
1. Encrypt with SHA256 or some other algorithm
1. Store in separate text file
1. Add option to update credentials in main()

Need to copy annotated PDFs also.

I would really appreciate it if there was a way to see all the collections that an item belongs to. Could check pull requests, or write my own. But that would entail building Zotero myself.


Also thinking what's the difference between the Library and the @inbox placeholder collection

Tags:
  research, zotero